-- EON Raises Offer to Buy Malaysia's 4th-Biggest Bank
-- Chan Tien Hin
-- 2007-03-07T12:29:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-03-07/eon-raises-offer-to-buy-malaysia-s-4th-biggest-bank-update1-.html

          
          
             EON Capital Bhd., one of  Malaysia 's
smallest lenders, raised its offer to buy the country's fourth-
biggest bank, a day after a pension fund joined a three-way fight.  
 EON Capital raised its offer to buy all the shares of Rashid
Hussain Bhd. it doesn't already own to 1.97 ringgit a share, from
1.80 ringgit a share previously, it said in a filing to the stock
exchange in Kuala Lumpur today. It raised its offer to buy Rashid
Hussain loan stocks, which can be converted into shares at a
later date, to 2.03 ringgit from 1.85 ringgit each.  
 It also offered to buy assets and liabilities of  RHB Capital
Bhd. (RHBC) , a unit of Rashid Hussain and Malaysia's fourth-biggest bank,
for 9.12 billion ringgit ($2.6 billion), up from the 8.75 billion
ringgit in cash in its Feb. 7 offer.  
 EON Capital sweetened its offer after Malaysia's largest
pension fund, the Employees Provident Fund, yesterday announced a
2.2 billion ringgit offer for Utama Banking Group Bhd.'s 33
percent stake in Rashid Hussain. A group led by Kuwait Finance
House, the  Persian Gulf 's largest Islamic investment bank, has
bid 2.16 billion ringgit for Utama's stake.  
 ``This will put more pressure for Kuwait Finance to match
the offer,'' said Kelvin Miranda, who helps manages $210 million
at Asian Asset Management in  Kuala Lumpur . The Employees
Provident Fund ``fired the first salvo, now its EON,'' he said.  
 RHB Capital  
 After it completes the takeover of Rashid Hussain, which
owns 65 percent of RHB Capital, EON Capital will offer to buy the
remaining shares it doesn't own in RHB Capital at 5 ringgit a
share, higher than the 4.80 ringgit it offered last month, it
said today. The revised offer is valid till March 9.  
 Yesterday's offer by the Employees Provident, which already
owns 31 percent of Rashid, had beat EON Capital's earlier bid
because the pension fund offered more for Rashid's irredeemable
unsecured loan stock, even though it matched EON Capital's
original 1.80 ringgit price for Rashid's ordinary shares.  
 Malaysian Prime Minister Abdullah Ahmad Badawi said
yesterday he won't block an acquisition by Employees Provident.  
 Kuwait Finance House may lose its bid because the offer
lacks certainty on financing and timing, people familiar with the
matter said today.  
 EON Capital, which earns a third of its revenue from auto-
purchase financing, said Feb. 7 taking over Rashid and RHB
Capital would enable it to create the country's third-largest
bank. It is 20 percent owned by DRB-Hicom Bhd., which is
controlled by Malaysian tycoon Syed Mokhtar Al-Bukhary.  
 Its latest offer values Rashid Hussain at a minimum of 1.44
billion ringgit, excluding warrants and loan stocks, and is at a
14 percent premium over Rashid Hussain's last traded price of
1.73 ringgit.  
 Rashid stock rose 5.5 percent today. Utama Banking Group's
shares jumped 19 percent, the most in eight months.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Phang in Kuala Lumpur at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net ;
Chan Tien Hin in Kuala Lumpur at 
   thchan@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tony Jordan  at   tjordan3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        